# AI-Caretaker

Abstract
Caretakers confront a difficult task when taking care of dementia patients, exacerbated when the caregiver has other responsibilities, such as work or school. This situation became a concern when my grandfather, diagnosed with mild dementia, wandered out of the house when home alone. Of the care applications available today, most require manual patient input via the app or otherwise, which is difficult when the patient has impaired memory. The AI Caretaker will develop an AI-based voice-control caretaker to assist patients with dementia in collaboration with their caregivers. This project can initiate natural conversation, vocalize reminders, log medication intake and activities via oral confirmation, detect potential emergencies from the patient’s input, and alert caregivers via SMS in real time. The AI Caretaker remains simple yet assists patients without burdening them and enables care workers to derive passive data (collected with the patient's consent). Technologically, the system accommodates spoken input from the user via a speech recognition system, designs contextual responses using a generative AI algorithm, and produces auditory outputs via a text-to-speech system. Conversations and activities would be logged, and emergencies would trigger SMS alerts for caregivers. The system's efficiency would be tested using scripted scenarios that test edge cases, ambiguity, and falsities. The increasing prevalence of dementia among the aging population makes this project's focus the exploration of the role of human-centric AI systems in improving patient safety, reducing caregiver stress, and offering an ethical support framework that is highly scalable to home care environments.
